Writing the source files
========================

Source files to be run through cog are mostly just plain text that will be
passed through untouched.  The Python code in your source file is standard
Python code.  Any way you want to use Python to generate text to go into your
file is fine.  Each chunk of Python code (between the ``[[[cog`` and ``]]]``
lines) is called a *generator* and is executed in sequence.

The output area for each generator (between the ``]]]`` and ``[[[end]]]``
lines) is deleted, and the output of running the Python code is inserted in its
place.  To accommodate all source file types, the format of the marker lines is
irrelevant.  If the line contains the special character sequence, the whole
line is taken as a marker.  Any of these lines mark the beginning of executable
Python code:

.. code-block:: text

    //[[[cog
    /* cog starts now: [[[cog */
    -- [[[cog (this is cog Python code)
    #if 0 // [[[cog

Cog can also be used in languages without multi-line comments.  If the marker
lines all have the same text before the triple brackets, and all the lines in
the generator code also have this text as a prefix, then the prefixes are
removed from all the generator lines before execution.  For example, in a SQL
file, this:

.. code-block:: sql

    --[[[cog
    --   import cog
    --   for table in ['customers', 'orders', 'suppliers']:
    --      cog.outl("drop table %s;" % table)
    --]]]
    --[[[end]]]

will produce this:

.. code-block:: sql

    --[[[cog
    --   import cog
    --   for table in ['customers', 'orders', 'suppliers']:
    --      cog.outl("drop table %s;" % table)
    --]]]
    drop table customers;
    drop table orders;
    drop table suppliers;
    --[[[end]]]

Finally, a compact form can be used for single-line generators.  The begin-code
marker and the end-code marker can appear on the same line, and all the text
between them will be taken as a single Python line:

.. code-block:: cpp

    // blah blah
    //[[[cog import MyModule as m; m.generateCode() ]]]
    //[[[end]]]

You can also use this form to simply import a module.  The top-level statements
in the module can generate the code.

If you have special requirements for the syntax of your file, you can use the
``--markers`` option to define new markers.

If there are multiple generators in the same file, they are executed with the
same globals dictionary, so it is as if they were all one Python module.

Cog tries to do the right thing with white space.  Your Python code can be
block-indented to match the surrounding text in the source file, and cog will
re-indent the output to fit as well.  All of the output for a generator is
collected as a block of text, a common whitespace prefix is removed, and then
the block is indented to match the indentation of the cog generator. This means
the left-most non-whitespace character in your output will have the same
indentation as the begin-code marker line.  Other lines in your output keep
their relative indentation.
